Update the documentation guide within the development guide (#1156)
PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy: docs/development/doc_guide.rst

************************
Documentation guidelines
************************

Documentation that is up-to-date and understandable is vital to the
health of a software project. This page describes the documentation
requirements and guidelines to be followed during the development of
PlasmaPy and affiliated packages.

> PlasmaPy's online documentation is hosted by `Read the Docs
> <https://readthedocs.org/>`_ and can be found online at:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PlasmaPy's online documentation is hosted by `Read the Docs`_
and can be found online at:
```

* Most recent stable release:
  `https://docs.plasmapy.org <https://docs.plasmapy.org>`_ or
  `https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/stable/ <https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/stable/>`_

* Latest version on GitHub:

>   `https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/latest/ <https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/latest/>`_

Reviewer: Might be useful to define the difference between what is meant by stable and latest, i.e. stable = last release and latest = Head of master.

Reviewer: This might also be worth adding in an admonition on the documentation landing page.  I would not be surprised if this is a common point of confusion when users seek out documentation, any documentation not just PlasmaPy.

Author: Yeah, an admonition would be really helpful.  I created #1164 for doing this on the landing page.

requirements and guidelines to be followed during the development of
PlasmaPy and affiliated packages.

`PlasmaPy's online documentation`_ is hosted by `Read the Docs`_ and is
available at these locations.

* The documentation corresponding to the most recent official release
  is labelled ``stable`` and is found at
  `https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/stable/
  <https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/stable/>`_.
  The link `https://docs.plasmapy.org/ <https://docs.plasmapy.org/>`_
  redirects to ``stable``.

* The documentation corresponding to the ``main`` branch on
  `PlasmaPy's GitHub repository`_ is labelled ``latest`` and can be
  found at `https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/latest/
  <https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/latest/>`_.

A preview of the documentation is generated every time a pull request
is created or updated. You can access this preview by scrolling down
to the checks at the bottom of a pull request, and clicking on
``Details`` next to ``docs/readthedocs.org:plasmapy``.

Building documentation
======================

To install all dependencies required to develop PlasmaPy on your local
computer, enter the top-level directory of the cloned repository and
run

.. code-block:: bash

>    pip install tox -r requirements.txt

Author: Would it make sense to add `tox` to `requirements/extras.txt`?  We do end up using it for development quite a lot, and it's also not a large package.

Reviewer: Why are you using `tox` here?  This can be done by just doing `pip install -r requirements.txt`. `tox` is not needed.

Reviewer: With that said, yes `tox` should be added to the `extras.txt`.  Now I see why `tox` is in this code example.

I say add, `tox` to `extras.txt` and remove it from the code-block here.

*******************
Documentation Guide
*******************

Documentation that is up-to-date and understandable is vital to the
health of a software project. This page describes the documentation
requirements and guidelines to be followed during the development of
PlasmaPy and affiliated packages.

`PlasmaPy's online documentation`_ is hosted by `Read the Docs`_ and is
available at these locations.

* The documentation corresponding to the most recent official release
  is labelled ``stable`` and is found at
  `https://docs.plasmapy.org/ <https://docs.plasmapy.org/>`_ or
  `https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/stable/ <https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/stable/>`_.

* The documentation corresponding to the ``main`` branch on
  `PlasmaPy's GitHub repository`_ is labelled ``latest`` and can be
  found at `https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/latest/
  <https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/latest/>`_.

A preview of the documentation is generated every time a pull request
is created or updated. You can access this preview by scrolling down
to the checks at the bottom of a pull request, and clicking on

> ``Details`` next to ``docs/readthedocs.org:plasmapy``.

Reviewer: I like this bit, but it could be made clearer by adding a screenshot from an actual PR.

Author: That's a good idea for a first contribution.  I'll create an issue for it.

Building documentation
======================

To install all dependencies required to develop PlasmaPy on your local
computer, enter the top-level directory of the cloned repository and
run

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install tox -r requirements.txt

> You can use `tox`_ to build the documentation from within the main

Reviewer: A little foreshadowing here would be a could thing.  You should specifically say there are two method to build the documentation: using `tox` and using `make`.  Then maybe give a brief explanation why you would use one over the other.

Author: Could you say a bit more about the reasons to use `tox` vs. `make`?  I've mostly used `tox` since `make` brings back bad memories of trying to compile Fortran code.

Reviewer: The big difference, `make` will just look at the current directory structure and build the documentation off of that.  This means you have to have properly setup all your dependencies ahead of time in whatever environment you are working in.  `tox` is a lot more computationally intensive since it will build the package and environment before building the documentation.  `tox` is great for CIs but I absolutely hate it for local builds because it does so much un-needed extra bits.

PlasmaPy repository directory by running

.. code-block:: bash

   tox -e build_docs

You can access the documentation landing page by opening
``docs/_build/html/index.html`` with your browser of choice.

When writing documentation, please make sure to fix any warnings that
arise. To enforce this, the ``build_docs`` environment is set to fail
on encountering any warnings via the ``-W`` flag to ``sphinx-build``.

You can shorten the documentation build by running

.. code-block:: bash

   tox -e build_docs_no_examples

in order to build the documentation without executing the
:ref:`example notebooks <example_notebooks>`. This command will pass
even if there are warnings.  The `tox`_ command may also include the
``--parallel`` flag to allow a parallel build.

If you have `make <https://www.gnu.org/software/make/>`_ installed,
then you can build the documentation by entering the ``docs/`` directory
and running

.. code-block:: bash

>    make html

Reviewer: Make a mention that there is a `make clean` (probably something similar for `tox`) that allows you to remove all build files.  This is often need when you make a change to a file that does not trigger sphinx to rebuild that file you altered.  This happen more frequently than one would expect.

Including the ``-j n`` flag in the ``make`` command will enable a
parallel build, where ``n`` is replaced with the number of processes.

Documentation tools
===================

ReStructuredText
----------------

PlasmaPy's documentation is written using the `reStructuredText (reST)
<https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html>`_
markup language. reST is human readable when viewed within a
source code file or when printed out using `help`. reST also contains
markup that allows the text to be transformed into `PlasmaPy's online
documentation`_. reST files end in ``.rst``. Documentation contained

> within ``.py`` files is written in reST.

Reviewer: I'm not sure how to word this, but make some kind of indication that docstrings are the documentation source within `.py` files.

ReStructuredText Examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Here we show some examples of reST that are commonly used in PlasmaPy.

Reviewer: Add a comment to the effect of "..., but please refer to the reST and sphinx documentation for a more complete list of available directives and syntax."

This is an example of including headings for the document title,
sections, subsections, and so on. The lines surrounding each heading
are the same length as that heading.

.. code-block:: rst

   ==============
   Document title
   ==============

   Heading 1
   =========

   Heading 2
   ---------

   Heading 3
   ~~~~~~~~~

We can link to code objects by enclosing them in back ticks.

.. code-block:: rst

  Here is a reference to `plasmapy.particles` that will write out the
  full namespace when `sphinx` generates the documentation and generates
  the link. Only the word "Particle" will show up if we prepend a

>   tilde like in `~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle`.

Reviewer: Maybe add the render of this example after the code block.

> This linking will work for `python` commands as well as commonly used
> packages like `numpy`, `astropy`, `scipy`, and `pandas`. Intersphinx_
> mappings are defined in the ``intersphinx_mapping`` variable in
> `docs/conf.py`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This linking will work for `python` commands as well as commonly used
packages like `numpy`, `astropy`, `scipy`, and `pandas`.   This cross-package
linking is made possible with the `sphinx.ext.intersphinx` extension and
the sources used for this cross-linking is defined in the
``intersphinx_mapping`` variable in `docs/conf.py`_.  If a cross-link is not
working as expected this is usually due to (1) a typo, (2) the package is
not defined in the ``intersphinx_mapping`` configuration value, or (3)
the referenced source package does not properly or fully index their
own code (this is common in open-source packages).
```

Reviewer: @namurphy Why did you mark this as resolved?  What is your take on this?

Author: Huh...I have no memory of marking this or other comments as resolved.  It could have been that I made changes to those lines of code which marked these comments as "outdated"...or possibly that I forgot how to use GitHub.  Whatever the case, I liked this suggestion.

`sphinx` can format code blocks for Python and the Python console.

   .. code-block:: rst

      .. code-block:: python

         def sample_function():
             return 42

      .. code-block:: pycon

         >>> print(6 * 9)

>          54

Reviewer: Again, include the rendered version of the example.  I really wish I knew of a clean why placing the code and rendered examples side-by-side.  That would make it more readable.

Here are some examples for linking to websites.

.. code-block:: rst

   Here is a link to `PlasmaPy's website <https://www.plasmapy.org>`_.

   We can link to PlasmaPy's latest documentation_ or `Python's website`_.

   .. _documentation: https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/latest/
   .. _`Python's documentation`: https://www.python.org/

Math can be written using `LaTeX <https://www.latex-project.org/>`_ commands

.. code-block:: rst

   .. math::

      \alpha = \beta + \gamma

> Math can be in-line, like ``:math:\`x\```. Using Unicode characters
> makes math like ``:math:\`α + β + γ\``` easier to read in source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Math can be in-line, like `` :math:`x` ``. Using Unicode characters
makes math like `` :math:`α + β + γ` `` easier to read in source code.
```

The backslashes are showing up on RTD.  I think my suggestion will fix this.

Reviewer: Again, I don't know why this was resolved.

Author: Yep, this suggestion needs to be implemented too.

Markdown
--------

A few of PlasmaPy's files are written using `Markdown
<https://www.markdownguide.org/>`_, such as README files and licenses
from other packages. Markdown is simpler but more limited than reST.
Markdown files end with ``.md``. Posts on GitHub are written in
`GitHub Flavored Markdown <https://github.github.com/gfm/>`_.
The following code block contains a few common examples of Markdown
formatting.

.. code-block:: markdown

   # Header 1

   ## Header 2

   Here is a link to [PlasmaPy's documentation](https://docs.plasmapy.org).

   We can make text **bold** or *italic*.

   We can write in-line code like `x = 1` or create a Python code block:

   ```Python
   y = 2
   z = 3
   ```

Sphinx
------

> `sphinx` is the software used to generate `PlasmaPy's online documentation`_
> from reST files and Python docstrings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`sphinx` is the software used to generate `PlasmaPy's online documentation`_
from reST files and Python docstrings.  It was originally created to write Python's
documentation and has become the de facto software for documenting python
packages.  Almost all python open-source packages utilize `sphinx` to generate
their documentation.
```

  to allow `Graphviz <https://graphviz.org/>`_ graphs to be included
* `sphinx.ext.mathjax
  <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/extensions/math.html#module-sphinx.ext.mathjax>`_
  for math rendering with `MathJax <https://www.mathjax.org/>`_
* `sphinx.ext.napoleon
  <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/extensions/napoleon.html>`_
  for allowing NumPy style docstrings
* `sphinx.ext.todo
  <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/extensions/todo.html>`_ to support
  ``todo`` directives
* `nbsphinx <https://nbsphinx.readthedocs.io>`_ for including
  `Jupyter`_ notebooks
* `sphinx_copybutton <https://sphinx-copybutton.readthedocs.io>`_ to add
  a "copy" button for code blocks
* `sphinx_gallery.load_style
  <https://sphinx-gallery.github.io/stable/advanced.html?highlight=load_style#using-only-sphinx-gallery-styles>`_
  for using sphinx-gallery styles
* IPython.sphinxext.ipython_console_highlighting
* `sphinx_changelog <https://sphinx-changelog.readthedocs.io>`_
  for rendering `towncrier`_ changelogs
* `plasmapy_sphinx` for customizations created for use in PlasmaPy.
  Note that `plasmapy_sphinx` is expected to be broken out into its own
  package at a future date.

> These extensions are specified in ``extensions`` in `docs/conf.py`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These extensions are specified in :confval:`extensions` configuration
value in `docs/conf.py`_.
```

This should cross-link to the ``extensions`` documentation in sphinx.

Reviewer: Actually, you should be able to do this with the `intersphinx_mappings` as well, ``:confvl:`intersphinx_mappings` ``.

References to other packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Intersphinx_ allows the automatic generation of links to the
> documentation of objects in other projects. The mappings are defined in
> the ``intersphinx_mapping`` dictionary in `docs/conf.py`_, and include
> `python`, `numpy`, `scipy`, `astropy`, `pandas`, `sphinx`, and
> `sphinx_automodapi`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Intersphinx_ allows the automatic generation of links to the
documentation of objects in other projects. The mappings are defined in
the :confval:`intersphinx_mapping` dictionary in `docs/conf.py`_, and include
`python`, `numpy`, `scipy`, `astropy`, `pandas`, `sphinx`, and
`sphinx_automodapi`.
```

What I said in https://github.com/PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy/pull/1156/files?file-filters%5B%5D=.rst#r654641786.  Should propagate this to all references of `intersphinx_mappings`.

When we include ``astropy.units.Quantity`` in the documentation, it
will show up as `astropy.units.Quantity` with a link to Astropy's

> documentation.

Reviewer: Give the `~` example as well.

Substitutions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some functions and classes are referred to repeatedly throughout the
documentation. reST allows us to `define substitutions
<https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html#substitution-definitions>`_.

.. code-block:: rst

   .. |Particle| replace:: `~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle`

PlasmaPy has certain common substitutions pre-defined so that they can
be used elsewhere in the documentation. For example, we can write
``|Quantity|`` instead of ``~astropy.units.Quantity``, and
``|Particle|`` instead of ``~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle``.
For an up-to-date list of substitutions, please refer to the
`docs/common_links.rst`_ file.

> Because substitutions are performed when `sphinx` builds the
> documentation, they will not be performed before `help` accesses the
> docstring of an `object`. For example, when ``|Particle|`` is used in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since substitutions are performed by `sphinx` when the documentation
is built, any substitution used in docstrings will not show up when using
Python's `help` function (or the like). For example, when ``|Particle|`` is used in
```

a docstring, `help` will show it as ``|Particle|`` rather than
``~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle``. Consequently,
substitutions should not be used in docstrings when it is important
that users have quick access to the full path of the `object` (such as
in the ``See Also`` section).

Writing documentation
=====================

Docstrings
----------

A docstring is a comment at the beginning of a function or another
object that provides information on how to use that function.
Docstrings begin with ``r"""`` (required when including backslashes,
such as using LaTeX code in equations) or ``"""``, and end with

> ``"""``.

Reviewer: This would be a good spot to reference Python's PEP on docstrings, https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/

In order to improve readability and maintain consistency, PlasmaPy uses
the `numpydoc`_ standard for docstrings.

Example docstring
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here is an example docstring in the `numpydoc`_ format.

.. code-block:: python
   :caption: Example docstring

   import numpy as np
   import warnings

   def subtract(a, b, *, switch_order=False):
       r"""

>        Return the difference between two integers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       Compute the difference between two integers.
```

Just say what the function is doing, we already know it's returning something. This is probably the thing that annoys me the most about our docstrings and I'd like to discourage its usage.

      Examples
      --------
      Include a few example usages of the function here. Start with simple
      examples and then increase complexity when necessary.

      >>> from package.subpackage.module import subtract
      >>> subtract(9, 6)
      3

      Here is an example of a multi-line function call.

      >>> subtract(
      ...     9, 6, switch_order=True,
      ... )
      -3

      PlasmaPy's test suite will check that these commands provide the
      output that follows each function call.
      """
      if np.isinf(a) or np.isinf(b):
          raise ValueError("Cannot perform substraction operations involving infinity.")

      warnings.warn("The subtract function encountered a nan value.", UserWarning)

      return b - a if switch_order else a - b

Template docstring
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This template docstring may be copied into new functions. Usually only
some of the sections will be necessary for a particular function, but
any sections that are included should be in the order provided.

.. code-block:: python
  :caption: Docstring template

  def sample_function():
      r"""

>       Return ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Readable description of sample_function.
```

I don't want to encourage people to start of a docstring with "Return."  It redundant, just say what the functionality is doing.

Author: Huh.  I got that wording from one of the recommendations in [PEP 257](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/#id16).

Reviewer: Yeah, I know.  It's widely used and in the PEP so I've never mentioned it.  You started removing them in a recent documentation refactor, so I'm hopeful that it gets propagated throughout the documentation.

Technically there's nothing wrong with it, but it's so redundant.  It doesn't do anything to expand the meaning of the documentation.  I already know a function is returning something, why are you telling me again!?  I have to read two extra words before I even get to the meat of the description.  It's just a pet-peeve of mine.  I won't use it but I also won't go throughout the documentation to strike it down.

      Parameters
      ----------

      Returns
      -------

      Raises
      ------

      Warns
      -----

      See Also
      --------

      Notes
      -----

      References
      ----------

      Examples
      --------

      """

Documentation guidelines
========================

This section contains guidelines and best practices for writing

> PlasmaPy documentation.

Reviewer: Add a bullet stating that if the main docstring should only be 2-4 sentences followed by the "Parameters" section.  If more detail needs to be added, then the "Notes" section should be used to expand on the main component of the docstring.

  in the present tense.

* Keep the documentation style consistent within a file or module, and
  preferably across all of PlasmaPy's documentation.

* Refer to the `numpydoc`_ standard for how to write docstrings for
  classes, class attributes, and constants.

* Update code and corresponding documentation at the same time.

* Write sentences that are simple, concise, and direct rather than
  complicated, vague, or ambiguous. Prefer sentences with ≲ 20
  words.

* Avoid idioms, metaphors, and references that are specific to a
  particular culture.

* Use technical jargon sparingly. Define technical jargon when
  necessary.

* Many words and software packages have more than one common spelling
  or acronym. Use the spelling that is used in the file you are
  modifying, which is preferably the spelling used throughout
  `PlasmaPy's online documentation`_.

  * More generally, it is preferable to use the spelling that is used
    in `Python's documentation`_ or the spelling that is used most
    commonly.

  * Represent names and acronyms for a software package as they are
    represented in the documentation for that package.

> * Write the full namespace when referring to code objects within
>   PlasmaPy. For example, write

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When referencing PlasmaPy functionality, write the full namespace path to
  where the functionality is defined, not where it's conveniently accessed.
  For example, write
```

  ``~plasmapy.formulary.parameters.Alfven_speed`` rather than

>   ``~plasmapy.formulary.Alfven_speed``.  This does not need to be done
>   for intersphinx links to other packages; it is fine to do
>   ``~astropy.units.Quantity`` and not necessary to do
>   ``~astropy.units.quantity.Quantity``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ``~plasmapy.formulary.Alfven_speed``.  This does not necessarily
  need to be done when referencing external packages, since
  each package may have their own standard.  For example, Astropy's
  `~astropy.units.Quantity` class is defined in
  ``astropy.units.quantity.Quantity`` but is also indexed at
  ``~astropy.units.Quantity`` so either option will link to some
  documentation.
```

> * For readability, limit documentation line lengths to ≲ 72 characters.
>   Longer line lengths may be used when necessary (e.g., for hyperlinks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For readability, limit documentation line lengths to ≲ 80 characters.
  Longer line lengths may be used when necessary (e.g., for hyperlinks).
```

This number comes from Python's PEP8 rule based on a max line length of 80.  Our max line length is 90 so I say we bump this up by 8-10 characters as well.

Author: I looked up recently what the [optimal line length](https://baymard.com/blog/line-length-readability) is for readability and I've seen ∼50–60 characters as well as ∼50–75 characters.  Perhaps we could say ≲ 72 characters excluding indentations.  That'd typically be a max line length of 76 characters for regular functions, so it ends up being an average of our two preferences.

  hosted on personal websites.

  * When including references, use a link that includes a
    `persistent identifier <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persistent_identifier>`_
    such as a digital object identifier (DOI) when one is available (e.g.,
    `https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4602818
    <https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4602818>`_).

  * `Wikipedia <https://www.wikipedia.org/>`_ articles may be linked to
    when they contain a well-developed and accurate description of a
    concept.

* Include both the original references for a topic as well as accessible
  pedagogical references. Prefer references that are open access over
  references that require purchase of a subscription or are behind a
  `paywall <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paywall>`_.

.. note::

   Emphasize important points with `admonitions
   <https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#admonitions>`_
   like this one.

Docstring guidelines
--------------------

* All functions, classes, and objects that are part of PlasmaPy's
  public Application Programming Interface (API) must have a docstring
  that follows the `numpydoc`_ standard.

> * The first line of the docstring for a function or method should begin
>   with a word like "Return", "Calculate", or "Compute" and end with a
>   period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The first line of the docstring for a function or method should begin
  with a word like "Calculate" or "Compute" and end with a period.
```

  .. code-block:: python

     def some_function():
         """This is indented four spaces relative to the `def` statement."""

* The first sentence of a docstring of a function should include a
  concise definition of the quantity being calculated, as in the
  following example.

  .. code-block:: python

     def beta(T, n, B):
         """Compute the ratio of thermal pressure to magnetic pressure."""

  When the definition of the quantity being calculated is unable to fit
  on ∼1–2 lines, include the definition in the extended summary instead.

  .. code-block:: python

     def beta(T, n, B):
         """
         Compute plasma beta.

         Plasma beta is the ratio of thermal pressure to magnetic pressure.
         """

* Put any necessary highly technical information in the "Notes" section
  of a docstring.

* Private code objects (e.g., code objects that begin with a single
  underscore) should have docstrings. A docstring for a private code
  object may be a single line, and otherwise should be in `numpydoc`_
  format.

* Dunder methods (e.g., code objects like ``__init__`` that begin and
  end with two underscores) only need to have docstrings when needed to

>   describe non-standard or potentially unexpected behavior.

Reviewer: I wouldn't use `__init__` or `__new__` as examples here, because they get added to the class level docstring when rendering documentation.  I think they should get their own bullet point.

State the dunder methods are not rendered in the online documentation and are not intended for the public API.  Docstrings for these methods should be written for the developer in mind.

> * When an attribute in a class has both a getter (which is decorated
>   with `property`) and a setter method, both the getter and setter
>   should be documented in the docstring for the getter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When an attribute in a class has both a ``getter`` (which is decorated
  with `property`) and a ``setter`` decoration, then the ``getter`` and
  ``setter`` functionality should be documented in the docstring of
  method decorated with ``@property``.
```

  .. code-block:: python

     class Person:
         @property
         def age(self):
             """Document both getter and setter here."""
             return self._age

         @age.setter
         def age(self, n):
             self._age = n

> Narrative documentation guidelines

Reviewer: I would make some kind of comment that narrative documentation should be used when the full scope of some functionality can not be achieved with just docstrings of said functionality.  This often comes about when documentation needs to be more educational or there's a lot of connective tissue between complex functionality.

----------------------------------

> * Each subpackage in PlasmaPy must have corresponding narrative
>   documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Each top-level subpackage in PlasmaPy must have corresponding narrative
  documentation.
```

I don't think this is even currently true for all sub-subpackages, and I'm okay with that.

* Use narrative documentation to describe how different functionality
  works together.

* Use title case for page titles (e.g., "Title Case") and sentence case
  for all other headings (e.g., "Sentence case").

> * When the narrative documentation does not reference a subpackage or
>   module file, it is necessary to create a stub file in
>   `docs/api_static`_ for that particular subpackage or module file.
>   Here are the sample contents for a stub file for
>   `plasmapy.particles.atomic``.  This file would be located at
>   ``docs/api_static/plasmapy.particles.atomic.rst``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When the narrative documentation does not index a subpackage
  (directory) or module (``.py`` file) with :dir:`automodule`,
  :dir:`automodapi`, or the like, then it is required to create a stub
  file for that particular subpackage or module in `doc/api_static`_ .
  Here are the sample contents for a stub file for
  `plasmapy.particles.atomic``.  This file would be located at
  ``docs/api_static/plasmapy.particles.atomic.rst``.
```

*********************
Writing Documentation
*********************

Documentation that is up-to-date and understandable is vital to the
health of a software project. This page describes the documentation
requirements and guidelines to be followed during the development of
PlasmaPy and affiliated packages.

.. hint::

   Updating documentation is one of the best ways to make a first
   contribution to an open source software project.

.. note::

   If you discover areas within PlasmaPy's documentation that are
   confusing or incomplete, please `raise an issue`_! This really helps
   PlasmaPy not only by helping us improve the documentation for all,
   but also by creating opportunities for new contributors to make their
   first contribution to the project.

`PlasmaPy's documentation`_ is hosted by `Read the Docs`_ and is
available at these locations:

> * The documentation corresponding to the most recent official release is
>   labelled ``stable`` and is found at `https://docs.plasmapy.org/`_ or
>   `https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/stable/`_.
> 
> * The documentation corresponding to the ``main`` branch on `PlasmaPy's
>   GitHub repository`_ is labelled ``latest`` and can be found at
>   `https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/latest/`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The documentation corresponding to the most recent release to `PyPI`_ is
  labelled ``stable`` and is found at `https://docs.plasmapy.org/`_ or
  `https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/stable/`_.

* The documentation corresponding to the ongoing development on the
  ``main`` branch in `PlasmaPy's GitHub repository`_ , which is often ahead
  of the most recent release, is labelled ``latest`` and can be found at
  `https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/latest/`_.
```

I reworded this a little because I thought it would be useful to the reader to add a little more clarification about the difference between the most recent release and `main`.

A preview of the documentation is generated every time a pull request is
created or updated. You can access this preview by scrolling down to the
checks at the bottom of a pull request, and clicking on ``Details`` next
to ``docs/readthedocs.org:plasmapy``.

Building documentation
======================

There are two methods for building the documentation: make_ and tox_.

> * Using make_ will build the documentation based off of what is in the
>   current directory structure. Using make_ is quicker for local builds
>   but requires that setting up all dependencies ahead of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Using make_ will build the documentation based off of what is in the
  current directory structure. It is quicker for local builds than tox_
  but requires you to install and setup all dependencies.
```

> * Using tox_ does not require setting up all dependencies ahead of time,
>   but is more computationally intensive since it builds the package and
>   environment before building the documentation. Consequently, PlasmaPy
>   uses tox_ for building the documentation on continuous integration
>   testing platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Using tox_ does not require setting up all dependencies ahead of time,
  but is more computationally intensive since it creates a virtual environment
  and builds the package before building the documentation. Consequently,
  PlasmaPy uses tox_ for building the documentation on continuous integration
  testing platforms.
```

Prerequisites
-------------

To install all dependencies required to develop PlasmaPy on your local
computer, enter the top-level directory of the cloned repository and
run:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install -r requirements.txt

Building documentation with make
--------------------------------

If you have make_ installed, then you can build the documentation by
entering the :file:`docs/` directory and running:

.. code-block:: bash

   make html

Including the ``-j n`` flag in the ``make`` command will enable a
parallel build, where ``n`` is replaced with the number of processes.

> To remove all files from a documentation build, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove all files previously generated by ``make``, run:
```

Just so there's not confusion that `make clean` might remove EVERYTHING.

Author: Good catch!

.. code-block:: bash

   make clean

> This command is needed when you make a change to a file that does not
> trigger Sphinx_ to rebuild the file that you altered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command is needed when you make a change to a file that does not
trigger Sphinx_ to rebuild the file that you altered, for example modifying the CSS file.
```

Building documentation with tox
-------------------------------

You can use tox_ to locally build the documentation by running:

.. code-block:: bash

   tox -e build_docs

You can access the documentation landing page by opening

> :file:`docs/_build/html/index.html` with your browser of choice.

Reviewer: You should make a similar comment under the previous section, "Building documentation with make."

-------------------------------

You can use tox_ to locally build the documentation by running:

.. code-block:: bash

   tox -e build_docs

You can access the documentation landing page by opening
:file:`docs/_build/html/index.html` with your browser of choice.

When writing documentation, please make sure to fix any warnings that
arise. To enforce this, the ``build_docs`` environment is set to fail on
encountering any warnings via the ``-W`` flag to `sphinx-build`_.

You can shorten the tox_ documentation build by running:

.. code-block:: bash

   tox -e build_docs_no_examples

in order to build the documentation without executing the :ref:`example
notebooks <example_notebooks>`. This command will pass even if there are
warnings. A tox_ command may also include the ``--parallel`` flag to
allow a parallel build.

Documentation tools
===================

ReStructuredText
----------------

PlasmaPy's documentation is written using the `reStructuredText (reST)`_
markup language. reST_ is human readable when viewed within a source
code file or when printed out using `help`. reST_ also contains markup
that allows the text to be transformed into `PlasmaPy's documentation`_.

> reST_ files end in :file:`.rst`. Documentation contained within
> :file:`.py` files are in the form of docstrings_, which are written in
> reST_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reST_ files use the file extension :file:`.rst`. Documentation contained
within :file:`.py` files are in the form of docstrings_, which are written in
reST_.
```

Author: I was wondering how to better word this.  Thanks!

ReStructuredText Examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Here we show some examples of reST_ that are commonly used in PlasmaPy.
> Please refer to the documentation for Sphinx_ and reST_ for a list of
> available directives and syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we show some examples of commonly used reST_ syntax in
PlasmaPy.  Please refer to the documentation for Sphinx_ and reST_ for
a list of available directives and syntax.
```

This is an example of including headings for the document title,
sections, subsections, and so on. The lines surrounding each heading are
the same length as that heading.

.. code-block:: rst

   ==============
   Document title
   ==============

   Heading 1
   =========

   Heading 2
   ---------

   Heading 3
   ~~~~~~~~~

We can link to code objects by enclosing them in single back ticks.
This linking will work for Python_ commands as well as certain packages
like NumPy_, SciPy_, Astropy_, and pandas_. This linking is described in
the section on :ref:`external-references`. In-line code examples are
enclosed in double back ticks.

> .. code-block:: rst
> 
>    Here is a reference to `plasmapy.particles` that will show the full
>    namespace in the rendered documentation.
> 
>    Only the word "Particle" will show up if a prepend a tilde like in
>    `~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle`.
> 
>    Here is some in-line code: ``import astropy.units as u``.
> 
> This reST_ block will render as:
> 
>    Here is a reference to `plasmapy.particles` that will show the full
>    namespace in the rendered documentation.
> 
>    Only the word "Particle" will show up if a prepend a tilde like in
>    `~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle`.
> 
>    Here is some in-line code: ``import astropy.units as u``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: rst

   Here `plasmapy.particles` provides a linked reference to the
   module's documentation.
   
   Adding a tilde at the beginning `~plasmapy.particles` still
   provides a linked reference to the associated documentation
   but shortens the display so only "particles" is displayed.

   Double backticks are used to show inline code that is not
   cross-referenced: ``import astropy.units as u``.

This reST_ block will render as:

   Here `plasmapy.particles` provides a linked reference to the
   module's documentation.
   
   Adding a tilde at the beginning `~plasmapy.particles` still
   provides a linked reference to the associated documentation
   but shortens the display so only "particles" is displayed.

   Double backticks are used to show inline code that is not
   cross-referenced: ``import astropy.units as u``.
```

I felt this could use a little more elaboration for clarity, so this is my take on it.  I mostly wanted to emphasize that a link to the documentation is generated.

Sphinx_ can format code blocks for Python_ and the Python_ console.

   .. code-block:: rst

      .. code-block:: python

         def sample_function():
             return 42

      .. code-block:: pycon

         >>> print(6 * 9)
         54

This reST block will render as:

   .. code-block:: python

      def sample_function():
          return 42

   .. code-block:: pycon

      >>> print(6 * 9)
      54

Here are some examples for linking to websites.

.. code-block:: rst

   Here is a link to `PlasmaPy's website <https://www.plasmapy.org>`_.

   We can link to PlasmaPy's latest documentation_ or `Python's website`_.

   .. _documentation: https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/latest/

>    .. _`Python's website`: https://www.python.org/

Reviewer: Is there a reason you did not include a rendered version here?

Author: Yes, it was to avoid duplication with `common_links.rst`, at least for earlier commits.  With that said, yeah, it'd be worth changing the example so we can include a rendered version.

Math can typically be written using LaTeX_ commands.

.. code-block:: rst

   .. math::

      \alpha = \beta + \gamma

This reST_ block will render as:

   .. math::

      \alpha = \beta + \gamma

Math can be in-line.

.. code-block:: rst

   An example of in-line math is :math:`x`. Using Unicode characters

>    like :math:`α + β + γ` makes math easier to read in the source code.

Reviewer: meh...it's a little subjective 🤣

This reST_ block will render as:

   An example of in-line math is :math:`x`. Using Unicode characters
   like :math:`α + β + γ` makes math easier to read in the source code.

Markdown
--------

> A few of PlasmaPy's files are written using Markdown_, such as README
> files and licenses from other packages. Markdown_ is simpler but more
> limited than reST_. Markdown_ files end with :file:`.md`. Posts on
> GitHub are written in `GitHub Flavored Markdown`_.  The following code
> block contains a few common examples of Markdown_ formatting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A few of PlasmaPy's files are written using Markdown_, such as README
files and licenses from other packages. Markdown_ is simpler but more
limited than reST_. Markdown_ files use the file extension :file:`.md`. Posts on
GitHub are written in `GitHub Flavored Markdown`_.  The following code
block contains a few common examples of Markdown_ formatting.
```

overrides`_ for the `Read the Docs Sphinx Theme`_ to customize the look
and feel of the online documentation.

Sphinx extensions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`PlasmaPy's documentation`_ is built with the following Sphinx_
extensions:

* `sphinx.ext.autodoc` for including documentation from docstrings
* `sphinx.ext.intersphinx` for linking to other projects' documentation
* `sphinx.ext.graphviz` to allow Graphviz_ graphs to be included
* `sphinx.ext.mathjax` for math rendering with MathJax_
* `sphinx.ext.napoleon` for allowing NumPy style docstrings
* `sphinx.ext.todo` to support ``todo`` directives
* nbsphinx_ for including Jupyter_ notebooks
* `sphinx_copybutton`_ to add a "copy" button for code blocks
* `sphinx_gallery.load_style`_ for using sphinx-gallery styles
* `IPython.sphinxext.ipython_console_highlighting`_
* `sphinx_changelog`_ for rendering `towncrier`_ changelogs
* `plasmapy_sphinx` for customizations created for use in PlasmaPy and
  affiliated packages. Note that `plasmapy_sphinx` is expected to be
  broken out into its own package in the future.

These extensions are specified in :confval:`extensions` configuration
value in `docs/conf.py`_.

.. _external-references:

> References to other packages
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cross-referencing external packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

Sphinx documentation uses the "cross-referencing" terminology in their documentation, so I feel it's best to be consistent with them.

> Intersphinx_ allows the automatic generation of links to the
> documentation of objects in other projects. This cross-package linking
> is made possible with the `sphinx.ext.intersphinx` extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Intersphinx_ allows the automatic generation of links to the
documentation of objects in other projects. This cross-package linking
is made possible with the `sphinx.ext.intersphinx` extension and proper
package indexing by the external package using `sphinx.ext.autodoc`.
```

As you've discovered recently, proper cross-referencing is twofold: (1) us setting up `intersphinx` properly and (2) the desired package properly indexing their functionality.

> When we include ``astropy.units.Quantity`` in the documentation, it will
> show up as `astropy.units.Quantity` with a link to the appropriate page
> in Astropy documentation. Similarly, ``~astropy.units.Quantity`` will
> show up as `~astropy.units.Quantity`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we include `` `astropy.units.Quantity` `` in the documentation, it will
show up as `astropy.units.Quantity` with a link to the appropriate page
in Astropy documentation. Similarly, `` `~astropy.units.Quantity` `` will
show up as `~astropy.units.Quantity`.
```

I'm not 100% that this will work as intended so you'll have to test it out.  But, I think having the actual code syntax display here will make the documentation more clear to the reader.

> The mappings are defined in the :confval:`intersphinx_mapping`
> dictionary in `docs/conf.py`_, and include Python_, NumPy_, SciPy_,
> Astropy_, pandas_, Sphinx_, and `sphinx_automodapi`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make cross-referencing to an external package available its
mappings have to be defined in the :confval:`intersphinx_mapping`
configuration dictionary contained in `docs/conf.py`_.  PlasmaPy
has already include several packages like Python_, NumPy_, SciPy_,
Astropy_, Sphinx_, etc.
```

I wanted to make the last part of this statement a little more general so it does not get out of date immediately.  Plus I don't want to have to maintain it whenever we add a new package to the mappings.

Author: I fully support future proofing documentation when possible.

New source packages may be added, but please verify that references to a
function or class in that package show up correctly in `PlasmaPy's
documentation`_. The name of the package does not always link as
expected.

.. hint::

   If a cross-link is not working as expected this is usually due to one
   of the following reasons:

   * A typo;
   * The package not being defined in :confval:`intersphinx_mapping`, or
   * The referenced source package not properly or fully indexing their
     own code, which is common in Python_ packages.

Substitutions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some functions and classes are referred to repeatedly throughout the
documentation. reST_ allows us to `define substitutions
<https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html#substitution-definitions>`_.

> .. code-block:: rst
> 
>    .. |Particle| replace:: `~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: rst

   .. |Particle| replace:: `~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle`

Here whenever ``|Particle|`` is used Sphinx_ will replace it with 
`` `~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle` `` during build time.
```

Nowhere in this section did you explicitly say Sphinx substitutes X for Y during building.  I wanted to directly say that.

> PlasmaPy has certain common substitutions pre-defined so that they can
> be used elsewhere in the documentation. For example, we can write
> ``|Quantity|`` instead of ``~astropy.units.Quantity``, and
> ``|Particle|`` instead of
> ``~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle``.  For an up-to-date list
> of substitutions, please refer to the `docs/common_links.rst`_ file.
> 
> Since substitutions are performed by Sphinx_ when the documentation is
> built, any substitution used in docstrings will not show up when using
> Python's `help` function (or the like). For example, when ``|Particle|``
> is used in a docstring, `help` will show it as ``|Particle|`` rather
> than ``~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle``.  Consequently,
> substitutions should not be used in docstrings when it is important that
> users have quick access to the full path of the `object` (such as in the
> ``See Also`` section).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PlasmaPy has certain common substitutions pre-defined so that they can
be used elsewhere in the documentation. For example, we can write
``|Quantity|`` instead of ```~astropy.units.Quantity```, and
``|Particle|`` instead of
```~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle```.  For an up-to-date list
of substitutions, please refer to the `docs/common_links.rst`_ file.

Since substitutions are performed by Sphinx_ when the documentation is
built, any substitution used in docstrings will not show up when using
Python's `help` function (or the like). For example, when ``|Particle|``
is used in a docstring, `help` will show it as ``|Particle|`` rather
than ```~plasmapy.particles.particle_class.Particle```.  Consequently,
substitutions should not be used in docstrings when it is important that
users have quick access to the full path of the `object` (such as in the
``See Also`` section).
```

Templating
~~~~~~~~~~

Sphinx_ uses the Jinja_ templating engine to generate HTML code. Jinja_

> may be used within the documentation when templating is necessary.

Reviewer: Should include a link to Sphinx's templating page, https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/templating.html.

Writing documentation
=====================

Docstrings
----------

> A docstring is a comment at the beginning of a function or another
> object that provides information on how to use that function.
> Docstrings begin with ``r"""`` (required when including backslashes,
> such as using LaTeX_ code in equations) or ``"""``, and end with
> ``"""``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A docstring_ is a comment at the beginning of a function or another
object that provides information on how to use that function
(see `PEP 257 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/>`_).
Docstrings are designated by surrounding the content with
triple quotes ``"""This is my docstring."""``.  If a docstring
contains math that utilizes LaTex_ code, then we recommend
using a raw-string so you don't have to handle escape
characters on backslashes.  For example, the raw-string
``r""":math:`\alpha`"""`` will render the same as the normal string
``""":math:`\\alpha`"""``.
```

I've already noticed contributors using raw strings when it's not needed.  I think highlighting the difference between raw and normal strings here would be useful.

In order to improve readability and maintain consistency, PlasmaPy uses
the numpydoc_ standard for docstrings. Docstring conventions for Python_

> are more generally described in :pep:`257`.

Reviewer: I did not know there as a PEP role.  I like it!!

  .. code-block:: python

     def beta(T, n, B):
         """
         Compute plasma beta.

         Plasma beta is the ratio of thermal pressure to magnetic pressure.
         """

* Put any necessary highly technical information in the "Notes" section
  of a docstring.

* Private code objects (e.g., code objects that begin with a single
  underscore, like ``_private_object``) should have docstrings. A
  docstring for a private code object may be a single line, and
  otherwise should be in numpydoc_ format.

  * Docstrings for private code objects do not get rendered in the
    online documentation, and should be intended for contributors.

* Dunder methods (e.g., code objects like ``__add__`` that begin and end
  with two underscores) only need docstrings if it is necessary to
  describe non-standard or potentially unexpected behavior. Custom
  behavior associated with dunder methods should be described in the
  class-level documentation.

  * Docstrings for most dunder methods are not rendered in the online
    documentation and should therefore be intended for contributors.

  * Docstrings for ``__init__`` and ``__new__`` are included in the

>     class-level docstring when rendering documentation.

Reviewer: The `__call__` dunder is rendered for the documentation, so I'd add a bullet noting it's docstring should be written for the user and not just the contributor/developer.

> * When an attribute in a class has both a getter (which is decorated
>   with `property`) and a ``setter`` decoration, then the getter and
>   ``setter`` functionality should be documented in the docstring of the
>   attribute decorated with ``@property``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When an attribute in a class has both a getter (which is the method
  decorated with `@property`) and a ``setter`` decoration, then the
  getter and ``setter`` functionality should be documented in the
  docstring of the attribute decorated with ``@property``.
```

  .. code-block:: python

     class Person:
         @property
         def age(self):
             """Document both getter and setter here."""
             return self._age

         @age.setter
         def age(self, n):
             self._age = n

Narrative documentation guidelines
----------------------------------

* Each top-level subpackage must have corresponding narrative
  documentation.

* Use narrative documentation to describe how different functionality
  works together.

* Narrative documentation should be used when the full scope of some
  functionality cannot be adequately described within only the
  docstrings of that functionality.

* Use title case for page titles (e.g., "This is Title Case") and
  sentence case for all other headings (e.g., "This is sentence case").

* When the narrative documentation does not index a subpackage (a
  directory) or module (a :file:`.py` file) with ``automodule``,
  ``automodapi``, or the like, then it is required to create a stub file

>   for that particular subpackage or module in `docs/api_static`_ .  Here
>   are the sample contents for a stub file for
>   `plasmapy.particles.atomic`. This file would be located at jlkj;lj
>   :file:`docs/api_static/plasmapy.particles.atomic.rst`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  for that particular subpackage or module in `docs/api_static`_ .  For
  example, the stub file for `plasmapy.particles.atomic` is placed at
  :file:`docs/api_static/plasampy.particles.atomic.rst` and its contents
  look like:
```

* Each subpackage must have narrative documentation describing its
  use.

> .. replace:: _`Read the Docs`: https://readthedocs.org/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _`Read the Docs`: https://readthedocs.org/
```

This is what is causing the current failed check.

Author: Good catch — thanks!
